=Ctrl
* '''Accelerator.h'''/cpp: Accel::Handle, Handler, Item (key->command mapping), Maker (collects items and creates an accelerator). Keyboard accelerator.
* '''Button.h''': Win::Button, RadioButton, CheckBox, ButtonMaker
* '''ComboBox.h'''/cpp: Win::ComboBox, ComboBoxMaker.
* '''Controls.h'''/cpp: Win::CommonControlsRegistry (registering common controls with Windows), SimpleControl (base class for controls), ControlWithFont (base class for controls that use specific fonts), ControlMaker.
* '''DatePicker.h'''/cpp: Win::DatePicker, DatePickerMaker--calendar control.
* '''DropDown.h'''/cpp: Win::DropDown
* '''Edit.h'''/cpp: Win::EditReadOnly, Edit, StreamEdit (edit control with std::streambuf interface), EditMaker. Edit controls.
* '''FileGet.h'''/cpp: FileGetter, PathIter. Open File common control
* '''FontSelector.h'''/cpp: Font::Selector--font selector control
* '''Header.h''': Win::Header, HeaderMaker--ListView header
* '''InfoDisp.h''': Win::InfoDisp, InfoDisplayMaker, ReadOnlyDisplay. Static text control.
* '''ListBox.h'''/cpp: Win::ListBox::Simple, SingleSel, MultiSel, Maker--List box.
* '''ListView.h'''/cpp: Win::ListView, Report, ReportCallback (gets item info using callbacks), ReportListing, ListViewMaker, ReportMaker, Notify::ListViewHandler.
* '''Menu.h'''/cpp: Menu::Handle, AutoHandle, Bar, Popup, Tracker, Item, DropDown, Context, State.
* '''Output.h'''/cpp: Out::Sink--Message box
* '''ProgressBar.h'''/cpp: ProgressMeter, Win::ProgressBar, ProgressBarMaker. Progress bar control.
* '''PropertySheet.h'''/cpp: Notify::PageHandler, PropPage::ControlHandler, Handler, Controller, Sheet, Navigator, Wizard, WizardHandler, HandlerSet. Property sheet and wizard controls.
* '''Rebar.h'''/cpp: Tool::Rebar, RebarMaker, ButtonBand, Notify::RebarHandler
* '''RichEditCtrl.h'''/cpp: Win::RichEdit, Notify::RichEditHandler.
* '''Scroll.h'''/cpp: TxtScrollBar (line-granularity scrollbar), VTxtScrollBar, HTxtScrollBar, TxtScrollBarCtrl.
* '''Spin.h''': Win::Spin--spin control.
* '''Static.h''': Win::StaticText, StaticImage, StaticMaker. Static control.
* '''StatusBar.h'''/cpp: Win::StatusBar, StatusBarMaker.
* '''Tabs.h'''/cpp: Tab::Item, Tab::Handle, EnumeratedTabs (tab control template using enumeration for tab identification), Notify::TabHandler. Tab control.
* '''ToolBar.h'''/cpp: Tool::Handle, Maker, Bar, Button, BarSeparator, ButtonCtrl. Toolbar control.
* '''Tooltip.h''': Tool::Tip, TipForCtrl, Notify::ToolTipHandler.
* '''Tree.h'''/cpp: Tree::Node, View, Maker, Notify::TreeViewHandler. Treeview control.

==RSWL-Specific
* '''Command.h'''/cpp: Cmd::Vector, Executor, Item (named command), VectorExec (executes commands from command vector). 
* '''Focus.h'''/cpp: Focus::Sink, Ring. Remembers focus for multiple child windows.
* '''FocusBarWin.h'''/cpp: FocusBar::Ctrl, Use. A bar that is highlighted when its associated window gets focus.
* '''MarginCtrl.h'''/cpp: MarginController. Text margin control that can be used to select lines of text in the adjacent window.
* '''Messages.h''': Windows messages used by RSWL
* '''Splitter.h'''/cpp: Splitter::Ctrl, VerticalCtrl, HorizontalCtrl, UseVertical, UseHorizontal. Window splitter controls.

