 Wiki Help: [[system:Help|General]] | [[system:SQWiki Help|SQWiki]] | [[system:Forms Help|Forms]] |
=RSWL Documentation
| Note: You need Code Co-op v. 5.0 in order to display wiki documentation. Version 5.0 is now in beta. Please download it from the Reliable Software web site, [http://www.relisoft.com/co_op/50annc.html].|
==Introduction
Reliable Software Windows Library (RSWL) is a Windows library based on the ideas from the book '''[http://www.relisoft.com/book/|C++ In Action]''', ''Industrial Strength Programming in C++'' (Bartosz Milewski, Addison Wesley, 2001). It is an object-oriented encapsulation of the Windows API. The library is used commercially by [http://www.relisoft.com|Reliable Software] in the development of [http://www.relisoft.com/co_op|Code Co-op], a distributed version control system.

A good place to start familiarizing yourself with the library is to study [[WinTest]]--a small test application written using RSWL.
===Licensing
The library is free for individual and commercial use. The only restriction is that Reliable Software is the sole distributor of the source code. See the [[copyright]] agreement. 
==Table of Contents
* [[Top Level]]. Miscellaneous utility classes: auto_vector, large integer, string utilities, CRC calculator... 
* [[Win]]. Basic infrastructure of a Windows program: handles, message loop, controller, window, window class, dialog... 
* [[Sys]]. Operating system: threads, synchronization, DLL, clipboard, timer, date, cryptography... 
* [[Graph]]. GDI: canvas (device context), bitmap, font, pen, cursor... 
* [[Ctrl]]. Window controls: menu, button, edit, rich edit, list box, toolbar, property sheet... 
* [[File]]. File system: file, memory-mapped file, path, directory listing... 
* [[Net]]. Network support: net share, socket, FTP, BITS, internet... 
* [[Com]]. COM interfaces and Windows Shell: shell file operations, drag and drop... 
* [[Dbg]]. Debugging support: debug output, assertion, debug log... 
* [[Ex]]. Exceptions, WinError... 
* [[Mail]]. SMTP, POP3, Base64 
* [[Parse]]. Simple parser infrastructure: named pair, buffered stream... 
* [[XML]]. XML parser and XML tree. 
* [[Unit Test]]. Unit tester for some of the library components. 
* [[WinTest]]. Simple demo with menu and the about dialog. 
==Tutorials and Examples
* Using [[SMTP]] to send e-mail.

