=Top Level
* Utilities
** '''Algo.h''': copy_if algorithm
** '''array_vector.h''': a vector of auto_array, StringArray--a vector of char arrays (C-strings).
** '''auto_array.h''': non-resizable array (like auto_ptr, but with a pointer to an array)
** '''auto_vector.h''': a vector of pointers that deals with ownership issues. To be used in concert with std::auto_ptr for [http://www.relisoft.com/resource/resmain.html|resource management].
** '''Bit.h''': BitField--a set of 32 bits addressable using an arbitrary enumeration.
** '''HtmlTag.h''': utility for generating HTML open/close tags
** '''LargeInt.h''': Windows specific 64-bit integer class with conversions
** '''LightString.h''': thin encapsulation of string stream
** '''NamedBool.h''': a set of named Boolean flags. You can set and test them by (string) name.
** '''PtrUtil.h''': RefCounted, RefPtr (cheap SharedPtr), TempSubstPtr, TempSubstVal (RAII objects for temporary substitutions of ptrs and values)
** '''TriState.h''': Yes/No/Maybe enum
** '''unmovable_vector.h''': resizable container that doesn't invalidate pointers or iterators
* '''CmdLineScanner.h'''/cpp: simple command-line tokenizer--recognizes switch characters (/ or -), colons, and quoted/non-quoted strings.
* '''Crc.h'''/CrcTable.cpp -- cyclic redundancy check (sophisticated checksum) calculator 
* '''GenericIo.h''': interfaces for generic character I/O--Get/Put/Flush
* '''Handlers.h''': Handler switches for new handler, unexpected handler, and structured exception handler.
* '''HashTable.h'''/cpp: simple hash table
* '''Lock.h''': exception-safe re-entrance lock. Locks and unlocks a boolean flag
* '''StringOp.h'''/cpp: string utilities. 
**String conversions: ToString, ToHexString, ToHexStr, ToWString, ToMBString, ToInt, HexStrToUnsigned 
**MultiString (useful with multi-string register values), 
**writable_string (for use with APIs that return strings by filling counted buffers), 
**Indentation (object for indenting std::out), 
**FormatFileSize, 
** IsAscii, IsSpace, IsAlnum, IsAlpha, IsDigit, IsUpper, ToUpper, ToLower, IsGraph, IsEndOfLine, IsWordBreak
**overlapped_copy, 
**HasGuidFormat, 
**TrimmedString (trims leading and trailing whitespace), 
**ReplaceNullPadding, 
**CharSet (set of char) 
** Case insensitive utilities
*** UpCaseTable (for locale-depended case comparison), 
*** predicate objects: NocaleLessChar, NocaseEqualChar, NocaseLess, NocaseEqual, 
*** predicate functions: IsNocaseEqual, NocaseCompare, IsCaseEqual
***NocaseNameCmp (file names)
***NocaseMap, NocaseSet
***IsFileNameEqual, IsFileNameLess, FileNameCompare, FileNameLess, FileNameEqual
**NamedValues
* '''TimeStamp.h'''/cpp: CurrentTime, IsTimeOlderThan, StrTime (locale-sensitive conversion to string)
* '''WinLibBase.h''': precompiled header file
