=Win
* '''Atom.h'''/cpp: Win::GlobalAtom
* '''Caret.h''': Win::Caret, caret operations
* '''ControlHandler.h''': Control::Handler interface for various window controls
* '''Controller.h'''/cpp: Win::Controller interface--major building block of any Window application. Contains virtual message handlers for Windows messages. Win::Controller::Dispatch mplements dispatching of windows messages.
* '''Dde.h'''/cpp: Windows DDE encapsulation
* '''Dialog.h'''/cpp: Windows modal and modeless dialogs
** Dialog::Handle
** Dialog::Controller
** Dialog::ControlHandler: interface--handles messages from controls
** Dialog::Template: for creating dialogs on the fly
** Dialog::ModalController
** Dialog::ModelesController
** Dialog::Modal: creates a modal dialog
** Dialog::ModelessMaker: creates a modeless dialog
* '''EnumProcess.h'''/cpp: Win::EnumProcess--enumerates processes and sends messages to them.
* '''GdiHandles.h''': handles to GDI objects like pens, accelerators, fonts, image lists, brushes, bitmaps, cursors, icons, and regions
* '''Geom.h'''/cpp: geometrical objects--Win::Point, Win::Rect, and their specializations
* '''Handler\s.h''': template for Windows handles-- Win::Handle and Win::AutoHandle
* '''Help.h'''/cpp: encapsulates Windows HtmlHelp
* '''Instance.h'''/cpp: Win::Instance--also loading instance resources (icons)
* '''Keyboard.h'''/cpp: Keyboard::Handler--virtual methods for keyboard actions. VKey enumeration
* '''Message.h''': Win::Message, Win::UserMessage, Win::RegisteredMessage, Win::ControlMessage, Win::NotifyMessage--sending Windows messages
* '''Metrics.h''': non-client metrics (Font::Descriptors) from SysetmParametersInfo
* '''Mouse.h''': Mouse::GetDoublClickTime
* '''MsgLoop.h'''/cpp: Encapsulation of Windows message loop
** Win::MessagePrepro
** Win::ModalMessagePrepro: handles accelerators and dialogs, pumps and peeks messages.
* '''Notification.h''': Notify::Handler interface for various Windows controls
* '''OwnerDraw.h'''/cpp: OwnerDraw::Handler--for owner draw processing
* '''Procedure.h'''/cpp: Win::Procedure, Win::SubProcedure (for window subclassing). RSWL internal implementation of Windows procedure.
* '''Region.h'''/cpp: Windows regions. Region::Handle, Region::Elliptic, Rectangular, Rounded, and Polygonal.
* '''SysHandle.h''': Sys::Handle--encapsulation of Window handles that are closed using CloseHandle.
* '''TickCounter.h''': Win::TickCounter--counts processor ticks (for timings)
* '''Utility.h''': Win::CreateData, Win::ActiveAction (window activation), Win::MouseActiveAction, Win::HitTest (where did the mouse hit occur?), Win::SystemWideFlags, Win::KeyState (shift state during mouse click), Win::ClassInfo
* '''Win.h'''/cpp: Win::Style, Win::Style::Ex, Win::Quit, Win::Sleep, Win::Dow::Handle (encapsulates most operations that can be done with a window), Win::Placement, Win::StyleHolder (for temporary style switches), Win::PaintLock (to delay painting), Win::RedrawLock.
* '''WinClass.h'''/cpp: Windows class-- Win::Class, Win::Class::Maker, Win::Class::TopMaker (for top-level windows)
* '''WinMain.h'''/cpp: Win::Main (the main Windows function), Win::CommandLine.
* '''WinMaker.h'''/cpp: the creator of windows. Win::Maker, Win::TopMaker, Win::ChildMaker, Win::PopupMaker
* '''WinResource.h'''/cpp: Resource template for finding, loading, and locking Windows resources (contents of the resource file).
